Now we will talk about checking processes status and killing it meaning or stopping it or
exiting the process.
So there are many processes,
um,
in Olynyk system that when you run it,
it doesn't stop gracefully or doesn't shut down gracefully.
And those processes,
most of times are called like zombie process or a process that does not have a parent.
A parent process will started and it initiated a child process.
Ah,
but then the parent process will stop,
but the child process was still lingering,
lingering around.
So those are the type of process that you do experience in your in your career in your I t
career.
So you would have to actually go into the system,
find those processes and kill those process.
So this is,
um,
this topic of this lesson is about the that process that we have to find out.
How can we be automate that process?
How can we put a script around that process to make it,
um,
Ron it at at certain times that will wake up and see a I see this process.
I'm gonna go ahead and kill it.
So what we're gonna do in this lesson is that we will create a dummy process.
Anything that is just taking up some off the CPI or memory resource is we'll just create
that process.
Then what we'll do is we were run the command to find that process I d commands are
different commands that you could check like top You could do PS minus cf.
There are so many commands that you could run to check which processes running.
And then you could,
um,
pipe it to grow up to grab for Pacific processes.
You're looking so in this lesson,
this is a lab environment.
We will have a process that will double in,
we will initiate.
And then we will run the PS minus e of command and group for that Pacific process and its I
d.
And then,
of course,
ah will create a script around it,
and then we will kill that process.
But in this Okay,
so this is the This is the exercise Will do.
Ah.
So for that,
let's go ahead and log into our Lennox server.
I'm logged in as myself and I am in my home.
I have solved PS directory,
which is professional script directory,
that I have are created earlier anyways.
So first,
um,
before I create a script,
I wanted to test my commands.
So I will run a process.
A dummy process which is to sleep.
Sleep is just,
ah,
command that will actually start taking your terminal.
And it will not give you your prom back for Let's see if I have 600 here,
it means 600 seconds,
which is like 10 minute.
So this will take away my prom or create a process for that problem and a little wait for
10 minutes and then it will return my problem back.
I hit.
Enter.
You see,
I do not have my prom back.
Now.
How can I check if this process what process ideas is assigned to it?
Who is running that well?
You cannot do it from the same terminal because you do not have the Prabhat unless you
control see out of it.
That's one way.
Second way is if you run the sleep process in the background,
then you could get your prom back and then you will see the process.
I d.
Anyway,
we'll start a duplicate turn meditation and now I will do PS minus sea of command to check
the process.
And I will grow up for sleep 600.
And as you see the first process,
right hairs initiated by me The process i d the process user i d the process Name time The
term of started from the 2nd 1 is just the group itself Commandment.
We run the group for it.
See describe since since this group is also a process than it runs,
it grips,
it grips itself.
How come it groups itself so fast?
But that's that's how it does in mili seconds.
Anyway,
soil,
run another command to grip out off grid.
So filter out craft now I will only see my sleep command.
Okay,
so this is the entire line.
I do not want to see the entire line.
I just wanted to get the process i d.
So I could kill that process.
I d So for that we have to keep filtering it and we'll do talk print dollar two because
it's the second column And now I have a process.
So the process i d is this and I want to kill that process.
I d to kill this process.
I t I'm just gonna make this bigger said this way.
Everything can show up in one line before I kill it.
It's always good idea that you tested that.
It comes back with the right I d.
So I'm gonna use the X argument Command X a RGs mind's eye parentheses.
This is where it holds the result off this committee and now one when it holds that result
in this parentheses.
What I wanted to do right now is what I wanted to echo that,
um,
whatever.
Inside of that parents see cell hit,
enter and you will see it brings back the same process.
It didn't kill it.
Now,
I could run a command hill right here,
and I could simply kill that commit that process process is gone.
And if you go back to your terminal in the background,
you'll see I got my prompt back,
and it says right here terminated.
So this is one of the ways that you could actually create a script like that which will
terminate your process that are no longer needed.
So let's go ahead and create the process.
V I,
um,
kill,
um process been bashed shoes.
The author,
of course,
We all know that by now.
Okay.
Date description.
This script will find,
um,
dead or Zumbi Process seas and kill.
It modified.
You ate.
You ate too.
Okay,
so I'm just gonna go ahead and save this,
and I will copy my entire command from here.
Go back into my script and paste it by right clicking in the party terminal.
So for that,
what I could do is just either I could just leave it like that and and do echo.
Ah,
sleeping processes are killed.
So this is how you go.
Run that simple command.
And once you run it Ah,
before you run it,
you have to give it execute permissions.
Kill process has executed permission.
Perfect.
And I'm gonna run that sleep cement and terminal behind me and it.
And now I will run the script,
kill process and all sleeping process are killed.
See if you got it prom back.
Yes.
So that's one way to do it the second way.
I'm sure.
You know,
I want you to try that.
Secondly,
I'm not gonna tell you is to use a for loop.
So you could actually put this entire command until here into a variable.
Let's call that variable a And then you will run the four loop port for I in dollar a do
kill dollar A done.
So try that,
and I'm sure it will work.
And if you have any issue with this four Luke commandment,
you're trying this,
Let me know.
But,
um,
I'm sure you will be able to right both scripts.
Would our ex arguments and four.